when our prior segment we were staying
the 5030 standard 3-cushion kick system
and we had to use those numbers with
subtraction I'm going to try to refine
the system a little bit where you don't
have to use the numbers when cue ball
shifts out of this corner pocket this
come eight is a little bit easier to get
the numbering system we're going to
start again with the standards setup we
had before we have the object-ball in
this corner which has a value of 20 the
cue balls in this corner which has a
value of 50 and if you remember when I
shot down this line I had to make the
half a diamond adjustment for the short
angle of the table which is no problem
that that's a normal thing no matter
where you travel so you have to again be
in touch with those elements that where
you play if it's raining more you're
going to adjust for shorter tables if
it's real dry sometimes you have to
compensate the other direction so just
be aware of those things when you move
this cue ball down the rail this way or
you move the cue ball down this short
rail this way the value of the cue ball
changes so we have to somehow come up
with a value of the cue ball as it moves
but then you have to subtract the value
of the algebra from it gets a little bit
complicated you're in the heat of battle
to make those subtractions there's an
exe an easier way to do it now this is a
generic system that works to within
about a three ball air margin of the
object ball so your object ball is 200
quarter inches in diameter so on either
side of that ball you at two and a
quarter inches so you got a six and
three-quarter inch error margin but you
still should hit the ball so in order to
do this we're just going to move the
cube up the table somewhere about in
this area it could be anywhere at all
and from this corner where the cue ball
was originally we remember the line we
had where we calculated from the corner
fifty thirty we move down a half a
diamond all you've got to do when you
get this calculation is take the line
that you shoot down off the table
through that half a diamond adjustment
and go off the table about seven to ten
feet now it just so happens that in this
room
were filming we have several cameras and
one of the cameras that we're looking at
now has you basically viewing some of
the information from different angles so
what I'm going to do is I'm going to be
aiming kind of at the camera at you so I
don't want you to move because I'm going
to be aiming at you and sometimes you
can just pay somebody to sit in a chair
and if you aim at that person you might
have a good chance of making it yet so
that's some of my humor that kind of
want to right there so we're going to go
ahead and start here go off the table
with this line straight off the table to
the camera now I'm going to come over
here I'm going out about seven feet out
where that camera is I'm going to
basically aim right at that camera with
the cue ball with the same English so
I'm aiming at the camera I don't have to
worry about any numbers at all hitting
the cue ball with high right spinning
the ball around the table and the ball
comes back like this and goes back to
the corner pocket that's amazing now you
can also do it anywhere on this end of
the table if your cue ball is down in
this area all you got to do is again his
aim at the camera so we go back again
establish the what's called spot on the
wall it's about seven to ten feet out we
come over here and we basically aim at
you in the camera so don't move because
we're going to aim right at you we hit
the cue ball this time again with high
right smooth stroke around the table cue
ball comes back over like this comes
over like this and comes back to the
corner pocket
perfect and I hit it perfect which you
remember before we were talking about
the scratches that's when you hit it
perfect so I wouldn't be disappointed if
I did that in the game using spot on the
wall and I scratched on I would feel
pretty good about calculating a shot and
without using numbers and being happy
just because I made it and the next time
you can make that minimal adjustment
from the perfectionist you had them so
this is a really quick way of shooting a
three cushion shot without using numbers
and I know you're going to enjoy it have
a lot of fun with this you can name it
just about anywhere in a room depending
upon which direction you're heading
memorize the points in the room memorize
what you're aiming at and you'll be able
to shoot a much higher level of this
game so I hope you've enjoyed this CSI
instructional tip